the bathroom is one of the smallest
rooms in the house but often it can be
the most expensive to renovate this one
is in desperate need of a makeover but
the trouble is the owners don't have an
awful lot of money so how about we read
about this one by reusing and recycling
the good news is most of the changes we
need to make him here a cosmetic these
tiles are in fantastic condition they're
nice and solid
they're not even molding all I need is a
quick cleanup and a coat of paint as for
the vanity dye that is too old and tired
so I think we'll be getting rid of this
as well as the shower spray droplets 7
years bad luck you know
you know what some things just may not
want to change that's not cosmetic
sometimes not all things go according to
plan these broken tiles could have been
a problem but because I'm painting over
them I'm just gluing them back in place
and no one will ever know when you
painted over tiles the one thing you
really do need to do is make sure that
they're thoroughly clean you need to get
off all of the soap scum because this is
what's going to make your paint not
stick properly now the way to do this is
use a good quality cream cleanser and
lots of elbow grease you have a bit of a
mold buildup in your bathroom before you
paint the tiles you will have to use a
bleach water solution but if you don't
want to use bleach training some natural
products like lemon juice bicarb or
vinegar instead to paint over these old
tiles I'm using a tub and tile painting
system
it's a 2-pack you just mix one part into
the other give it a really good stir and
my secret decorating tip is to make sure
that you use a mohair roller it's nice
and short the paint will go on very
smooth no rush dirts the great thing
about this paint it will cost less than
$200 for the whole room and that's the
big savings so while that's dry my next
job is to head off to recycling yard
seeing as this bathroom is all about
reuse and recycle I'm hoping to score a
vanity maybe even a basin and a shower
screen and possibly even a funky mirror
let's go
out of all the sinks here I'm liking
this one the best it's in pretty good
condition and it's a nice modern shape
plus it's got a working tab as well all
for $50 all these frames in here bad
find something for our mirror here's one
for 15 bucks bargain this one here could
be perfect for our vanity it's got a
hole down here for all of our plumbing
and baskets put plenty of storage and
it's just $10 it's an absolute steal
so is this shower screen for just $15 I
have shocked well all of this for the
most fabulous price of just $90 all up
the wall tiles are now looking a treat
and luckily the retro mosaic floor tiles
are in great condition so here's a
design tip we're picking a color from
the floor to use on the walls
it's called clay dust and it'll tie the
whole room together
most vanity cabinets set at a standard
height of between eight to nine hundred
mils which makes the sink nice and low
so the whole family can easily wash
their hands in this case though we're
using a vessel basin which sits like
this on top weight too high so my first
job is to take my saw and chop off the
legs make the whole overall height 900
mils
I'm not gonna use the baskets in this
top section of the unit instead I'm
adding a shelf for folder towels and all
those other bathroom bits and pieces
it'll also help to add some bracing to
the whole unit a strip of timber across
the top will help to hide the plumbing
and another piece of timber on the back
will also act as bracing the best thing
about customizing your cabinet is you
can design it according to your needs
you can place your suit to one side
which gives you a bit more bench space
or do what I'm doing and go more
traditionally and place it directly in
the centre with a sink in place now I
can position my tap now the idea here is
to place it far enough back but still
within easy reach all right I'm just
about there looks fine now that's left
to do is give everything a quick lights
and then it's on with the decorating for
this I've chosen to use black Japan it's
pretty unusual but it's a beautiful
glossy dark stain should make this cheap
old cabinet look very special indeed
I love this old frame it's gonna make
the most fantastic mirror for our
bathroom and really there is nothing to
it I'm just taking out the glass and the
old picture and this frame color well
it's actually quite good so I'm gonna
keep it as it is
it just needs the lights and to clean it
up I had this mirror cut by Iglesia for
$40 and I guess the tip here is to take
your frame to the glaze yeah that way he
can cut it exactly the size I've used
some glue to hold in the mirror and just
to make sure it's really secure some
tiny nails and very gentle taps from a
hammer I should do the trick we've
pulled apart the old bathroom so now
it's time to put it all back together
there we go
screen is in and looking good not bad
for $15 it's getting exciting time for
the sink
it's pretty amazing
no would ever believe that just
yesterday this entire cabinet the sink
and the tap came from the tip look at it
now and all for just $60 now for the
bathtub
well it's in pretty good neat all the
bones are there it just needs a bit of a
facelift so what we're using is one of
these bath inserts they cost under $800
if you install it yourself and the best
part is you're gonna save yourself a
heap of money and you could be soaking
in it in just a couple of hours first
use a magnet on the original drain then
just cut a hole next lift the insert out
and cut the old bath with he cell phone
put the bark insert back silicon around
the edges a quick clean and in just two
hours it is ready to use the main
feature of this bathroom makeover was
reusing and recycling and by doing that
we've been able to keep cost to an
absolute minimum
all up this bathroom makeover taming it
on two grand and if you ask me that is
money well spent
this room has come up an absolute treat